New BetterAuth integration (#2706)
garden-co/jazz: homepage/homepage/content/docs/authentication/better-auth.mdx

export const metadata = {
  description: "Integrate Better Auth with your Jazz app to authenticate users."
};
import { CodeGroup, ContentByFramework } from "@/components/forMdx";
import { Alert } from "@garden-co/design-system/src/components/atoms/Alert";

# Better Auth authentication

> [Better Auth](https://better-auth.com/) is a framework-agnostic authentication and authorization framework for TypeScript. Jazz can be integrated with Better Auth for the authentication phase, to store the [Jazz's Account keys](./overview) on Better Auth's users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Better Auth](https://better-auth.com/) is a self-hosted, framework-agnostic authentication and authorisation framework for TypeScript. 

You can integrate Better Auth with your Jazz app, allowing your Jazz user's account keys to be saved with the corresponding Better Auth user.
```

Despite other cloud solutions, Better Auth is self-hosted.

## How it works

When using Better Auth authentication:
1. Users sign up or sign in through Better Auth's authentication system
2. Jazz securely stores the user's account keys with Better Auth
3. When logging in, Jazz retrieves these keys from Better Auth
4. Once authenticated, users can work offline with full Jazz functionality

This authentication method is not fully local-first, as login and signup need to be done online, but once authenticated, users can use all of Jazz's features without needing to be online.

## Authentication methods and plugins

> Better Auth supports several authentication methods and plugins. The Jazz plugin has not been tested with all of them yet. Here is the compatibility matrix:

Author: It's also on my roadmap. We decided to postpone deep tests with the auth methods and plugins after the publication.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Better Auth method/plugin</th>
      <th>Jazz plugin</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Email/Password</td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Social Providers</td>
      <td>✅</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Username</td>
      <td>❓</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Anonymous</td>
      <td>❓</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Phone Number</td>
      <td>❓</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Magic Link</td>
      <td>❓</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Email OTP</td>
      <td>❓</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Passkey</td>
      <td>❓</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>One Tap</td>
      <td>❓</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

✅: tested and working
❓: not tested yet
❌: not supported

## Getting started

First of all, follow the [Better Auth documentation](https://www.better-auth.com/docs/installation) to install Better Auth:
- Install the dependency and set env variables

> - Create the betterAuth instance in the common `auth.ts` file, using the database adapter you want. {/* here the assist for next Jazz database adapter */}

Reviewer: Ah, so it's just foreshadowing that alternative database adapters are Coming Soon™? In that case ignore my comment!
